#summary Introduction to Agents

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

----

= On-Line Resources =
 * [http://www.aaai.org/AITopics/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/AITopics/Agents AItopics/agents] from the American Association on Artificial Intelligence.
 * [http://agents.umbc.edu/ UMBC Agent Web]: fantastic collection of example applications, agents in the news, lists of conferences and workshops, etc, etc, etc. Warning: looks like it has not been updated much since 2003/2005.
 * [http://agents.umbc.edu/introduction/ Agents 101]: Start here to learn about agents (from UMBC web).

= Articles =
== Non-Technical Introductory Articles ==
 * [AgentsIntro An introduction to agents] by Todd Sundsted
 * [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/share/pdf/agentTechnologyRoadmap05.pdf Agent Technology: Computing as Interaction: A Road map for Agent Based Computing ] by Michael Luck, Peter McBurney, Onn Shehory, Steve Willmott and the AgentLink Community 

== Articles That Critically Explore "Agency" ==
 * [IsItAnAgent Is it an Agent, or just a Program?: A Taxonomy for Autonomous Agents] by Stan Franklin and Art Graesser Institute for Intelligent Systems University of Memphis  
 * [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/share/pdf/menzies02.pdf What is an Agent and Why Should I Care?] Tim Menzies, Adrian Pearce, Clinton Heinze, Simon Goss, Second NASA Goddard Workshop on Formal Approaches to Agent-Based Systems (FAABS II), October 28-30, 2002

== Highly-Cited Articles ==
 * [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/share/pdf/woolridge95.pdf Intelligent agents: Theory and practice] by Michael Woolridge and  Nicholas R. Jennings, The Knowledge Engineering Review, Vol. 10, Number 2, Pages 115--152, 1995.
 * [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/share/pdf/woolridge03.pdf Towards a Logic of Rational Agency], by Wiebe van der Hoek ,  Michael Wooldridge, 2003

== More Recent Work ==
 * [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/share/pdf/recentAgentPapers2009.zip Recent Agent Papers], published 2009
 * [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/share/pdf/bonnet05.pdf From Team Plan to Individual Plans: a Petri Netbased Approach] Olivier Bonnet-Torres and Catherine Tessier. AAMAS?05, July 25-29, 2005, Utrecht, Netherlands
 * [http://teamcore.usc.edu/dpomdp/ Distributed Partially Observable Markov Decision Problems] (up to 2007).
