#summary Some useful Makefile tricks

= Why Need to Test =

<em>I should be able to write a test in any language. --J. Random Hacker</em>

Every programming has to be debugged:

 Debugging had to be discovered. I can remember the exact instant when I realized that a large part of my life from then on was going to be spent in finding mistakes in my own programs. <br>
 - Maurice Wilkes 1949 

Wilkes is pointing out that the time required to debug a system is surprisingly large- over half the effort of building. According to Brooks (The Mythical Man Month, 1995), the time required to build software divides as follows:

    * 1/3 in management and planning
    * 1/6 in development
    * 1/4 in unit test (testing all parts in isolation)
    * 1/4 in system testing (testing all parts, in combination) 

Decades later, the same distribution persists.  That is, if you
want to drastically change the economics of software development,
do something about testability. 

= Test-Driven Development (TDD) =

<em>From Wikipedia:</em> Test-driven development (TDD) is a software development technique
that relies on the repetition of a very short development cycle:
First the developer writes a failing automated test case that defines
a desired improvement or new function, then produces code to pass
that test and finally refactors the new code to acceptable standards.
Kent Beck, who is credited with having developed or 'rediscovered'
the technique, stated in 2003 that TDD encourages simple designs
and inspires confidence.

= Makefile Support for TDD =

[http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/lib/MakeFile MakeFile] offers a generic method for TDD:

 * Examples are stored in Bash scripts in a directory [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/lib/eg/ lib/eg].
 * Expectation for the ouput of (e.g.)  [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/lib/eg/0lib.st lib/eg/0lib.st] is stored in [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/lib/eg/0lib.st.want lib/eg/0lib.st.want].

The following commands are supported:
<dl>
<dt>_make X=file run_</dt>
<dd>Run the script in [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/lib/eg/ lib/eg/X].</dd>
<dt>_make X=file test_</dt>
<dd>Run the script then compare the results to _file.want_. Print "PASSED" if it the same; "FAILED" otherwise.</dd>
<dt>make tests </dt>
<dd>Run all the scripts in [http://agent-ready.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/lib/eg/ lib/eg].</dd>
<dt>make score </dt>
<dd>Run _make tests_ and count up the sum of the "PASSED"s and "FAILED"s.  </dd>
</dl>
